# UV-Mapping
UVs are the things that allow you to use 2D textures in Maya, which is a 3D application, on the models surface.
Planar mapping is a way to create or project a UV. It projects different planes on the different axis, if you choose the "bounding box" option. If you choose the "best plane" it projects the best plane for the faces you selected. This type of projection is best used for flat surfaces or objects, not super complex ones.
Cylindrical mapping is another method for projecting UVs. This creates a cylinder shaped UV but you have to close it and make a seam or where two edges are touching. This way is best used on objects that are shaped like a cylinder.
Spherical mapping is another way to project UVs. This creates a sphere shaped UV, you still need to close it like the cylindrical projection, however you need to close it on the top, bottom, and sides instead of just the sides like in the cylindrical projection. This method is best for sphere shaped objects.
Automatic mapping is another way of projecting UVs. You can create six or more different planes, they surround the object and a projection is being taken from each plane. They generate different pieces or shells in the UV editor and you can then manipulate the different shells to what you want.
You can also use multiple projections for one object and that will help clean up the distortion.
In Mayas UV texture editor you can use different tools to help modify your UVs. The "unfold" tool unfolds the UV at the seams you make and helps clear things up. The "move and sew" tool helps patch up holes, and the "cut" tool cuts whatever you have selected.
The different methods of projecting UVs is not suppose to be the final UV you have to change it and fix the distortion. They are there to start you out.
The zero to one space is where all the shells of an object are laid out to where you can see the texture. The more space you take up the better because you are wasting that space and you want to take as much up as you can.
You do not want distortion and if you have a checkered pattern to preview your texture the more the squares look like squares the less distortion you will have.
You can use a tool in the UV editor call "Display UV distortion" and in will display different colors that are red, white, and blue. The red and blue areas mean there is something wrong with those areas, the blue areas are areas that are compressed, and the red areas are areas that are stretched. The closer they are to white, the less compression or stretching there is. How you fix this is by scaling the UV until it is as close to white as you can make it.
You need to be aware of the scaling of your textures. You want match the scaling of all the objects in your scene unless you want more resolution on a certain object.
You do not want overlapping UVs. The easiest way to spot this is to shade the UVs and the darker the color the more UVs you have overlapping. Make sure that all the UVs are a blueish color, if it is red it's backwards, all you need to do it flip the UV.
